It's now time to introduce auto scaling auto scaling is a service which enables you to automatically
launch instances so what it does is you specify how many instances you want to be launch and auto scaling
takes care of launching those instances and also making sure that that number of instances is always
maintained.
Now you can also specify metrics which define how your auto scaling group even grows or shrinks back
in size again.
So that's what we define as elasticity.
Now scaling with auto scaling is horizontal because you're actually launching additional easy two instances
so you specify the launch parameters.
The type of instance you want to launch and auto scaling takes care of launching that type of instance.
And then when certain metrics are reached it can add additional instances.
If an instance fails and in this case it's failing a health check.
We don't have an elastic low band so if we did it'll be could also do health checking but otherwise
easy to status checks are used.
So in this case the instance has failed.
It's easy to status check and auto scaling we'll know about this and will then replace the instance.
So it's launched a new instance to replace it to ensure that enough instances are still running.
Another thing you can do is use metrics as you can see here.
Metrics are being sent to cloud watch and these are monitoring whatever information about your resource
you want to monitor.
So it could be CPSU number of connections disk Io etc..
In this case a metric has reported that the CPO across the instances has reached or exceeded 80 percent
and cloud watch will learn about this and then it will send a notification to the auto scanning group
and the auto scanning group then knows that it needs to scale and it adds an extra instance.
Now you could also say that if the metric falls below 80 percent then you could remove an instance or
it falls below 60 percent or whatever value you want to specify then it will terminate an instance to
reduce cost.
So that's at a very high level how auto scaling works.
Now you can also use auto scaling with elastic low balances and when used together.
This gives you the elasticity as well as the hate chain fault tolerance.
So in this architecture we have an application load balancer and it's distributing connections to all
of the instances in the auto scaling group.
So you've actually defined not just instances but an auto scaling group is registered against the load
balancer and whatever instances are then in that auto scanning group the low balance so we'll try and
distribute connections to them and in turn the auto scanning group can classically grow or shrink back
in size again according to whatever parameters you've defined.
So what we're going to do now is we're actually gonna go into a lab where we're going to build out a
configuration that you can see on the screen here and see how it all works in the console.
So I'll see in that lab guys.